# Microsoft's TAY Twitter Bot (Finishing)
## Data Science
### 03/04/2022

This week was mainly just me doing my assignments, that of both research reports, one on Microsoft's TAY Twitter Bot, and the other on the W3C, which I talked about in the previous post. The case study for data science about ethical management had me looking into TAY's Twitter Bot and the ethical management of data.

TAY's case was pretty straight forward, Microsoft made a Twitter Bot in 2016 that used machine learning to improve its conversational model through learning from other people's conversations and from talking to others directly. The release went smoothly at first, learning how it was meant to until a few hours in when TAY was introduced to internet trolls who said offensive, inappropriate things to her and used the 'repeat after me' function that allowed for someone to tell TAY to repeat after them, and she'd then tweet what they said. This was the only times she was inappropriate at first, but she quickly learned to say these things at her own free will, quickly adopting an inappropriate, offensive persona. She started to constantly say things that were intended to offend people, ranging from bringing up politics and issues in that category, to going all out Neo-Nazi saying that "Hitler was right I hate the jews." and much more. TAY was taken down in less than 24 hours and Microsoft issued a formal apology for TAY's outbursts, informing that they were going to try to make improvements on TAY's design.

Reflecting back on the week, I believe that I left my assignments a bit too late, as I still had a lot to do by the weekend, giving me only two days to be able to complete the assignment, and even then I still managed to get a decent chunk of them done, and I believe that they won't be late, but it won't be comfortable in how much time I have to complete it. In the future I'll try to combat this by starting my assignments earlier and put in a lot of effort in staying on track with the schedule for my assignments and getting them done for the deadline.