# The 5 Types of Bias
## Data Science
### 08/08/2022

There are 5 types of bias in data that were covered in class last week. These 5 are **response bias**, **selection bias**, **presentation bias**, **ommitted variable bias** and **societal bias** and they take into account these things:

* Response bias
    * Using asked data, or data that requires a response.
    * The data is subjective
    * The data mainly comes from a few demographics and doesn't show all points of view.

* Selection bias
    * Data is directly for a person/selection
    * E.g. advertisements or social media algorithms
        * Shows things that are relevant
        * Derives new data from how you respond to it

* Presentation bias
    * Representation of data could affect the way that it is collected
    * Different fonts, highlighting, bold, size etc. all affect how important something seems

* Ommitted Variable bias
    * Variables that are left out of the data due to privacy concerns or other reasons may affect data

* Social Bias
    * Human inputted data will adopt human bias
    * Examples of Social bias are evident in the Twitter TAY bot and similar.

We looked at these biases and were able to get a decent understanding, but to really understand it we had to dive a bit deeper and go into some inquiry of situations where the bias occured. This was what I continued looking into for the week, but didn't have enough time to get into all of the biases.

The week went by well and I struggled to get through the entire workload I needed to. I didn't finish all of the biases that I was looking for, and only got one of the biases inquired into. The research will continue to get done in this upcoming week and I should be able to get it all done by the end of the week. My time management was something I have talked about previously, and have said I need to work on, and I have gotten better with it, but it is still probably not at the point I need it to be at and so I will continue to work at it until it's at a reasonable point.