# Continuing to look at bias
## Data Science
### 15/08/2022

Now I say continuing to look at bias, but I hadn't gotten much done last week on looking into biases. As stated last week, I was able to find a study on selection bias that would prove useful for the task I had been given, which was to find scenarios where specific biases had occured and to explain what happened, the effects and discuss if it was done or purpose or not.

The week went by fast. Not like other weeks, but I feel like I wasn't able to get much done. I spent way too much time on web dev and running through the tutorial on JQuery, which I haven't completed yet, and I left myself with barely any time for looking through the different biases. This is definitely an issue as when I don't get one thing done on time as it has a sort-of domino effect, where it will also affect other tasks. My plan is to combat this by putting a lot more time into the subjects outside of class, and not just for I.T. but also for most of my other classes. This means that this week and in future weeks to come I'll have enough time in and outside of class to get work done. To help myself with this I have changed availabilities at work so that I can have more time to deal with school and get everything done to an acceptable standard.

I'm lucky that the task was extended another week as I wasn't the only one falling behind, and so the plan is not just to combat time management issues, but also to get the biases task completed and to start on the next topics.