# A bit sidetracked...
## Data Science
### 16/05/2022

This week I didn't get much work done due to stressing over my English assignment that I left until the last minute. Due to my poor planning and motivation to get the assignment done when I received I started to put it off and procrastinate, leading to the five weeks turning into two, and then into five days, then two and finally almost pulling an all nighter to get it in on time.

I have realised that my issue lies withing the procrastination for doing something that I enjoy more instead of an assignment I have, which I will try to improve with on my assignments for Data Science and Web Dev. Instead of putting off the assignments until the last week, I will start doing the assignments earlier, that being when I receive them to make sure that the deadline won't pose to create to much stress and become overwhelming due to the lack of work that I did.

The time that I used well this week, though, was mainly put into finishing up the tasks for Web Dev, and that, I believe, I did well. Although I didn't get it completely finished I did get through a good chunk of it that allowed me to have most of the concepts that it was teaching set in my mind.

For the next week my main focus is to stay on top of tasks, as I don't want to go through the stress of not getting things done until the last minute. It might help running ideas by classmates or friends, and that's what I plan to do, and that's all as long as I stay on top of it all, and be hard on myself to get it done.