# Intro to Map Reduce
## Data Science
### 18/09/2022

Last week I learnt the concept of Map Reduce and how it can prove extremely useful in speeding up processing of data, that being cleaning, formatting, and any other modifications of the data. I was using the time in class to explore the concepts behind how it wokes and how you'd put it into use in Python, which I only got a little bit done.

Map reduce is a way of taking a lot of things that would all run through a single function and splitting it into chunks of equal sizes to process it all on seperate cores to use the most processing power in a shorter amount of time. This method isn't very efficient in small sets of data, as it would already run decently fast. If you had, let's say, a  list of strings and you wanted to find which is the longest, you could have a function that compares each string to each other and return the longest one, but that would take a long time once you have enough strings. But if we were able to take the list of strings and turn them into chunks of the original string and run the function over each of the chunks simultaneously, you'd be able to find the longest string of each of those much faster, and then you'd be able to compare the longest of each chunk to get your overall longest, and this would take the least amount of time. This can be stated as two steps - Map and Reduce, where map is the initial comparison in chunks, and then we run a final reduce so as to get the final product.

At the end of the week I was going to start using the Map Reduce method on my previous assignment's code to see if I can get any speed increase, but ended up trying to figure out the time library so I that I could measure it. I didn't get very far into the code as I was trying to figure out some of the methods that were being used in the tutorial, and realised they made another file that holds the functions, which I then attempted to emulate. I didn't have much luck there and realised I could just use the time library in itself to get two seperate times and find the difference using the `time.perf_counter()`. I didn't get far after that as I had to get my other assignments done outside of class, but I did get a brief understanding of ways you can check the amonut of time taken for a process and start to understand the significance of map reduce.

I might not have used my time to the best of my power, but I did use it to learn about the key concept of Map Reduce, and that's better than nothing at least. I probably used about 2 of the lessons entirely, as in to their 100%, and in some others I managed to get sidetracked at times and things didn't go smooth sailing, even when I was trying to as, believe it or not, when people are looking at random, interesting things on their computer, it is very easy to get distracted and look at what's happening. Luckily, this week I don't have any more assignments due, and so I should be able to use my class-time to a greater extent to grasp a firm understanding of how to implement Map Reduce in code that I've already written.