# Big Data
## Data Science
### 24/07/2022

This week I got an introduction to big data. In a nutshell, big data is data in great quantities (over 1 Terrabytes worth at minimum). There are 4 Vs of big data that give it meaning (Vs is not Versus, there are literally 4 words that start with V). Finally the week was all topped off with looking at some code and not having enough time to write any code myself, but that will also be done next week.

The value of big data is determined by the 4 big Vs of data.

They can be defined in the following ways:

* Volume 
    - The amount of data available
    - The more data available, the more valuable.

* Velocity
    - How fast we can acquire said data
    - Real time data is more valuable

* Variety
    - Different types of data
    - More variety in the types of data includes different sources
        - Not just one type e.g. Social media, but also other data like sales data or population data etc.
    - Variations in form of data
        - Structured
            - Spreadsheets etc.
        - Unstructured
            - Wikis, documents, forms etc.

* Veracity
    - Elimination of abnormalities, bias, noise or irrelevant data.
    - Cleaning the data allows for precise data to affect results

These 4 Vs can be combined to create a 5th V, that being Value. If the data has a lot of volume, can be quickly and easily acquired, is up to date, comes in different forms and has little to no abnormalities, bias, noise or irrelevant data, then it will have a higher value to people.

There was also a small overview for an intro back into seaborn, but I was only able to look into it briefly as it was introduced towards the end of the week and so I focused on the CSS Frameworks for the majority of the week up until the intro to Big Data and Seaborn.

There have been a few outcomes from this week that I'm happy with. I am firstly glad that I was able to dive into these concepts with a positive mindset and with the intent to understand what is being taught and to enjoy learning about data science components/concepts, in specifics for this semester, big data. Secondly I've been able to develop a decent understanding of what is being taught. I have been able to constantly listen to what is being taught and attempt to connect the dots to previous lessons and concepts that have been taught, and for the things I'm not understanding I have been able to ask questions to further inquire into the specific concept. This has helped in boosting my confidence in the course and allowed me to feel a bit more stress-free so that I can further develop my understanding leading up to the first assessment item.