# Exam - Bias
## Data Science
### 29/08/2022

Last week not much happened, so I have not much to talk about as no classes were help (except for the Monday) and I had exams. The only real thing that I did was some study/prep for the exam by going over a few biases and the way they affected data outcomes, that being I did a recap on the studies that I already talked about in previous posts.

The recap looked over some of the things that I was studying last week and looked over the different effects it had on the outcomes of the data and realisations of the data analysts. I then got into the exam and went back over what I learnt to answer the key question about how misrepresentation of data can be intentional and is the fault of the data analysts or methods/processes involved in collecting the data. I answered this in reference to 3 different misrepresentations of data and how they were affected by the processes involved and how they influenced the interpretation of the data. This was seen to have the possibility of a positive or negative impact, with the intensity varying, whether accidental or on purpose. This was the 'in a nutshell' of which I answered the question and wrote practically an entire essay on. I realised that my time management in this essay was a lot better than others, though, as in my English essay I only got through a very small portion as I took *way* too much time to plan, where in this one I didn't plan and just started writing as I knew what I was talking about, and I hope to bring this into the future exams and assignments so that I have less stress and am able to get everything done on time.

This week, I am going to continue working through the classwork provided to grasp a decent understanding of the concepts taught so that I can use my own understanding in future tasks instead of only half learning something so that I won't have to look back over concepts multiple times when I should already have them stuck in my head.