# New approach to the assignment
## Data Science
### 30/05/2022

Last week I started the Data Science assignment, getting into the groove of finding some data sets, comparing them, creating a hypothesis and everything alongside it. I realise that previously the data sets I had chosen were quite simple and straight forward, not leaving much up to using my brain and figuring out what information could extracted from the data that is useful and interesting that would be used for proving or disproving my hypothesis. This week a few things changed about the approach and that's what I'm going to be what I'm putting into this entry today.

Let's start things off with the first main change, the data sets. I said previously that I was going to look at annual car sales and the change throughout time, but was later told that it was too simple and straightforward, which is completely understandable, it seems that it would be a pretty straight forward answer. This week though I had looked into two seperate questions that I was hoping to find a dataset for. The first one was looking into people's socio-economic status based off of their first names to see if there was any correlation there. Sadly the issue that I ran into while looking into that question was finding the specific data sets. The data sets I needed had to have first names and their associated income, lifestyle or anything else that would indicate their associated socio-economic status. One idea that popped up was to look into a list of names that went to private schools, as they would normally have a slightly higher socio-economic status, but it seemed that the data isn't usually open to the public as I was unable to find any.

The question that I finally ended up looking into was the question of 'How has housing costs increased in accordance with the cost of living?'. This I thought would be interesting as it isn't too straight forward and would leave room for interpreting the data in different ways and being able to see some of the trends and outliers that would pop up. I am especially curious of what has happened leading up to, and in 2020, as the price of buying a house seemed to start sky-rocketing, but I'll leave the data to decide if that is what actually happened. This provides a great opportunity in my studies to have fun with the data and add a bit of complexity to get a deeper answer into my question and hypothesis.

Reflecting on the week, I was a bit slow in the Data Science side of things, unlike the Web Dev side. I may have gotten a lot of work done of the Web Dev side of things, but it led to me focusing on that. I realise that I had put too much time into just the Web Dev assignment and need to fix that. This upcoming week I'm going to make sure that I focus on getting both assignments done, dividing up my time so that I don't focus too much on just one assignment, and am able to get through both assignments before the due date.