# Not Much to do with Web Dev (Game dev)
## Web Dev
### 01/08/2022

Throughout the week I had not looked into much more to do with web dev as I had completed the work for the 2 weeks that was assigned and was looking into other things. Instead I looked into some concepts that were happening in the other courses, specifically the game dev course.

The course wasn't directed towards me but instead to a classmate, but I was allowed to sit in, listen, and learn the concepts that were being talked about in game dev. The main concepts talked about were convergent evolution, which is the idea that although many animals grow and evolve as different animals, they still develop similar traits. For example, dolphins and bats both evolved to use echolocation and gorillas and pandas both developed opposable thumbs. This idea became relevant to game design as it shows the evolution of games alongside what else is happening in the world at the time or in other games being made and how similarities develop.

There was a bit more looked at that I'm not going to go into today, but might have a bit of a reflection on later.

All in all, the week went by well and I was able to learn a few things while not doing just Web Dev things. I was able to develop my understanding in other areas that I am not studying and ask questions on things I don't fully understand, which I got to do a few times. There wasn't too much to reflect on, besides the fact that I was not the greatest at staying focused while I had not much I needed to do. What I mean is that when I had nothing I **needed** to do there was still some things I could start doing which I ended up not doing. I plan on getting better at that in the future and possibly starting new concepts earlier so that I have plenty of time to get it done, or if I finish it, to ask if there's any extension work available or to listen in to the other courses as I'm just as interested in those as I am in Web Dev.