# The W3C Research Report
## Web Dev
### 03/04/2022

The W3C, or the World Wide Web consortium is an international community that works on building towards a long term goal of making the web accessible to everyone in the world. Their aim is to enable participation from everyone in the world on the web and to allow for ease of transferring information online. This week, I looked into The W3C for the web dev assignment, and how the W3C has affected the world we live in and the way that we access the internet.

The W3C started in 1994 by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, who realised that finding and transferring information was just too difficult as it would require using different applications to do different things, and those applications would only be compatible with certain computers, leading to a lot of difficulty if you needed to access 2 seperate sets of information from 2 seperate applications that worked on 2 seperate computers, _I think you get where I'm going with that_. The point is, it was a pain to access information if you needed to access them from different applications that are incompatible with their counterparts hardware. This sparked the idea of creating a standardised set of regulations that enforced everyone to use the same format and would be able to be read by a browser that was compatible with their hardware.

From there the W3C evolved to create more standards and HTML which would get updated every so often and become a larger organisation to work with many different businesses and organisations throughout the world. This non-centralised system allowed for an uncontrolled set of regulations that everyone abides by to create a more inclusive world wide web, and further their vision of making the Web accessible to everyone in the world.

Reflecting back I believe that I did well to research and start the W3C task for web dev, as I did a lot of research and categorised the information, sorting and formatting to make my life easier in answering the questions when I needed to write the report. In future though I will start my assignment earlier as I believe I still didn't leave myself enough time to do the assignment to adequate quality.