# The Internet and W3C
## Web Development
### 13/03/2022

This week in web dev, I kept looking through the Internet and W3C task, which was mainly focused around the basics of how the internet works and what the W3C is and how it affect the internet to this day. Building on what was said last time in the web dev post, I went through a document of how the internet sends and receives information from places. This starts in a computer, gets compressed and turned into packets and sent through a range of different locations to get to the end destination, which will then be unpacked and decompressed etc to be able to be seen on the other side.

A way of visualising what is happening in some of the steps, we ran some commands through the command prompt, those being:
- `ping`
- `tracert`
With `ping` showing packets being sent and time it takes to receive a response to a certain destination and `tracert` showing the exact path that the packets take, through each stop along the way, to get to the end destination. There were a few other things that the document told me to run, but they seemed to be built for Windows 95/NT, thus I skipped those and just went through understanding what they were trying to talk about.

The second half of the task was looking at the W3C or World Wide Web Consortium, where I had to look at who they are, their purpose, how they achieve their goal and how effective they are at achieving their goal. In a nutshell: the W3C is the World Wide Web Consortium, it was started in 1994 and their goal is to develop a set of standards and guidelines on the internet that give access to the internet to anyone, using any software or hardware, anywhere in the world, and for those that don't go by the standards of the W3C, they will have slower connections and incompatibility with some browsers and most search engines.

Overall in terms of going through and learning the information from the task went well, although I did get sidetracked a few times this week which had me falling a bit behind in the task, but by the end of the week I caught up enough to have enough information to write this post, and give an overview of what I learnt throughout the week and how I went learning it throughout the week. Next week though, I will focus on making sure that I won't get as sidetracked in the task and that I will keep on track to get the task done.