# Looking into more JavaScript
## Web Dev
### 16/05/2022

Throughout last week, I dived deeper into the world of JavaScript and how it interacts with the DOM. This can be used to create many different combinations of elements and designs to make a unique web page.

For the week, I looked further into the different ways of using JavaScript. The things that I had learnt from the tutorial were able to be passed across into the another HTML document and I was able to create a simple page, in no way structured that made use of the different features that JavaScript has that allows it to interact with HTML in a useful way. A few specifics that I looked into were the functions:

* `div.appendChild(element)` - Direct the specific element to become the child of a specific div container
* `div.replaceChild(newElement, element)` - Switch out a specific element as a child for another element
* `document.write("Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet")` - Write directly on the document specific text
* `element.setAttribute("attribute", "value")` - Set a customisable attribute of an element
* `element.style.x` - Change a style component, or an attribute by changing the '.style' to '.<attribute>'

These different methods are used to be able to create different aspects of a web-page without hard coding it in, which in my mind is better, but might not be overall.

I admit, I wasn't the most productive this week, although I did get a bunch done. I got sidetracked by a few things, which will be discussed more in the next post, and I was doing more work where I didn't need to. I decided to explore more out of the possibilities of the things that I _did_ learn instead of experimenting with those that I _was_ learning at the time. I'll make sure that throughout this week I really get back into the groove as I am receiving my assignment, and I'll attempt to get it done with good quality.