# Intro to SQL
## Web Dev
### 19/09/2022

Last week acted as more of a refresher of SQL as opposed to an introduction. A few years ago I had an introduction into SQL by another teacher, learning about relational databases and SQL syntax, all in the context of MS Access. This time, I won't be using MS Access, but instead, SQLite.

I started off by looking through the document that was left for us outlining what I needed to go through so as to re-familiarise myself with SQL. I went through a Grok tutorial on an intro to SQL and learnt about the syntax and keywords. The keywords that we looked over in the tutorial, or at least where I got up to was the `SELECT`, `FROM` and `WHERE` statements. The statements are used as follows:

* `SELECT` - Select a specific column from the specified table

* `FROM` - Specify the table that the information is getting read from

* `Where` - Filter out results to get only the data points that meet the specified conditions

The lesson on Grok takes a while but is definitely worth it due to the repetitiveness sticking the syntax into your head. Even though I haven't looked at it since last week, I remember the syntax clearly as I had to repeat many times.

I spent the time working through the intro on Grok and talking about the concepts with Michael, especially when I hit any issues, such as the fact that there is a concept in the SQL syntax where `''` is not `""`, as you can specify the `where` a specific attribute is `"X"` or `'x'`, but using `""` will result in the program attempting to find a table instead of an attribute, as the correct syntax uses `''`. All the issues I ran into and the conversations I had with my peers allowed me to grow and view problems from different POVs, which allowed me to see problems differently in the future and look at different work-arounds for issues.