# Regex
## Web Development
### 20/03/2022

In web dev, we're technically meant to be up to the Internet and W3C task, but I finished it last week, so I did an extension task, Regex. From what I learnt, regex has to do with common terms/expressions that can be used to searched through a file or list of words that allows for easier searching of terms or expressions.

For this we had to install GREP which gave us access to these features. GREP allowed us to use regex and search through a words.txt file, which gave us a massive file filled with just words all sorted alphabetically (Like a dictionary of words). From there I went through and tested how it worked, and how I can use it. Some of the things I discovered was the special characters, one of which was `^` which is used at the start of the term to say it must start with whatever comes after, e.g. `grep '^dog' words.txt` will give me all words that start with 'dog' while `grep 'dog' words.txt` would give me all words that have 'dog' in it. Secondly, there is the character `$` which can be used at the end to signify that is must end with the expression, e.g. `grep 'dog$' words.txt` will give me all words that end with dog, and `grep '^dog$' words.txt` will give the exact line. This wouldn't be too helpful without one last thing, using `.` would make  a fill-in, meaning that it would find all words matching the expression, and if it has any letter in that location, it will return the word, e.g. `grep 'ˆt.....o$' words.txt` would give `tattoo, tomato` as it would fill in the blank and return the words that would work with the expression.

There is more, but I didn't go too far into it as I read through parts of the pdf that I didn't need ot read which all reinforced those past few points.

This week was successful for learning some things about regex and ethics in data (next post), as I bleieve I was able to learn it better than some other things in the past due to the interactive nature of regex, using grep and a words file that taught about the possibilities of regex and how it can be used in many scenarios to make life easier. Besides that I had Morgan and Michael around who I was able to ask if I was having issues with any of the code, and so they gave me a bit more to work with if I ever got stuck.