# JQuery - Part 3 - Ajax
## Web Dev
### 21/08/2022

Over the past 2 weeks I was looking over JQuery and it's uses in Web Dev. On that topic, I also heard about something called AJAX for the first time, which stands for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML. Ajax is used for sending requests to a server to get external data without reloading a page, such as a seperate file. This is frequently used in social media sites such as twitter which sends a request back to the servers every so often to look for unread notifications.

For example, in the seperate JS file that was discussed in the previous post, I used events with selectors to fire functions, this example looked like this:
```js
$("#ajax").on("click", function(){
    $.ajax({ url:"js/text.txt", success:function(result){
        $("#ajax").text(result)
    }})
})
```
The function uses a button, which when clicked fires a function that uses ajax to GET a file in the directory 'text.txt'. This is then used to update the text of the button to the text in the txt file.

Prior to using AJAX here, I watched a few videos on what AJAX is and how to use it which were extremely useful in understanding and using AJAX on my own, the only issue I ran into was a CORS error, or a Cross Origin Resource Sharing error, which stopped me from remotely accessing other sites without any authentication, which is completely reasonable for security purposes. I'm not going to go over CORS here though, so if you want to know more, Google is a friend.

I was happy that I got through all of that last week, and also started looking into UX, but not enough to write about just yet, I'll make sure to get through it all so that I can make a post about it here for next week though.

All went well in the week, most things got done, and although I am slightly behind as I haven't done all the UX tasks, I feel happy that I have gotten to the point I'm at now, and motivated to continue going through the rest of the resources so that I'm prepared for the mid-term exam I have this week.