# Finishing Ethics in Data 
## Web Dev (Referring to Web Development as Web Dev now)
### 27/03/2022

Due to not finishing the Ethics in Data work in the previous week, I had to do a bit of work researching the rest of the RoboDebt scheme to write up the ~250-word overview of what the scheme was, what was wrong with it, and how it dealt with data morally and ethically.

As stated in the previous post, the RoboDebt algorithm was used to identify any overpayments or debts of a person by comparing Centrelink payments with averaged income reports from the ATO. The scheme was an automated version of a manual process that identified these debts but lacked pattern recognition in names that would find similarities and assume that names like "Fred's Breads", "Freds Breads", "FRED'S BREADS", and "Bready Fred trading as Fred's Breads" would all probably be the same company all formatted differently. Overall, the scheme had good intentions, but was under-developed and missing some of the core components that would allow it to avoid the crucial mistakes it ran into, which was misidentifying debts and overpayments, giving people higher debts than they actually had. I covered that there was no moral dilemma with the scheme, but ethically there was due to the automated process being under-tested before the deployment which is where these issues could have been picked up and fixed before affecting the general population in a negative way as it did.

Reflecting back on the week, I did decently in going through the content I needed to go through and complete, and I did it with minimal distractions to myself. One of the things I picked up though, was that I am _slightly_ distracting to those around me, as I caught myself a few times talking to people who were doing their work and pulling them away from what they were doing. This is a great problem as I need to make sure that I get my work done, but also allow for everyone else to get their work done, as the world doesn't revolve around me, and so my goal for this week is to be as little of a distraction as I can, or preferably, not a distraction at all so that people can get what they need to do.